---
layout: post
author: Apurva Raman
title: contextualizing the isg visit
---

I found my feelings about the readings and the groups to be quite connected, so I consolidated the two.

I started by watching The Social Life of Urban Spaces and I found it a really pleasant experience to watch. From my notes, what stood out most to me at the time were specific interesting observations about places: I found the discussion of Paley Park to be really fascinating and I really enjoyed watching the segments about chairs and reciprocated gestures and the little pockets of people and what gets strangers to interact versus acquaintances.

However, what I retain now is the general pattern of how social characteristics emerge from spaces and how what looks good in architectural drawings ends up dictating design way more than it should. I thought its presentation of “undesirable people” and hostile architecture to also be interesting in that it considered these people (who it described as often doing a public service) using the space to be a positive thing (not necessarily one to specifically design for, but certainly not one to intentionally exclude. I feel like that reading was problematized by the speculative infrastructures reading and how the margins are far more complicated and that if you stop thinking about marginalization outside of the one place you design for, you’re potentially missing a huge ecosystem.

I also found the notion of informal economies and activities from that reading   (the example about water access) to be compelling. A map of water access can be a map of municipal water pipes or it can attempt to track and document people’s relationship to water and their connections to others via water and how much time and effort water takes in their lives. I could imagine something similar for the Hyde Square Task Force folks- tracking and naming a few of the more intangible elements of culture and how a network of people grows and overlaying that on top of the sort of cultural infrastructural assets they have in their map. I’m not exactly sure what this would look like, but that’s my hunch.

With Sisters Unchained, I feel like the hacking/appropriating stuff that came up in the speculative infrastructures reading might make a lot of sense. The countermapping notion of capturing the geographical imagination and the map being necessary for political organizing is also really interesting in this space. I feel like what is most resonant for me here is surfacing what should be present in the environment, what connections and resources should be there are broken by the prison system, but I won’t really know until finding out more from them. I feel similarly about Urbano (I didn’t have access to their info yet) but I think their participatory art angle adds an additional layer to think about the layer of data collection and labor in the countermapping perspective and the leverage there. I like the idea of confusing reporters (is it research or protest –or art?) and am interested in perhaps doing something where the aesthetics are highly considered with them.
